---
title:  Project ideas, outline, and groups
layout: post
---






For the course project, the goal will be for individuals and teams to
read some recent research papers, and either do
(a) a survey of the related work on a problem:
* A summary of the most important recent work and advances on the problem
* Presenting several open questions or directions for attacking this problem

(b) do the above, with less of an emphasis on summarizing the most
relevant work and more focus on working through some possible
techniques for solving some open problems

(c) propose a new algorithmic problem
* Motivate it
* Describe its relationship to other problems in the field
* Talk about techniques for making progress on the problem

We're looking for a 5-10 page writeup, presumably on the longer end if
doing work in a pair, and a 10-20 minute presentation. We'll talk more
about these details once people pick groups and projects.


I would like for everyone to do this project either in pairs or
individually; please use Piazza to help find a partner if you don't
have one. When you have a partner, or have decided to work
individually, please send Tao and Jamie emails with the subject
"Project for 6550 Team" with your names, user IDs, and a brief summary
of what you'd like to do your project on. <bold> Please do this by
February 28, so that we can plan how many days we need to allocate for
presentations.</bold>

Here's a list of a few topics that whoever emails us first is welcome
to present upon. Feel free to invent your own, these are just a few
ideas to get you going.

* We briefly talked about the complexity of min-sum products. There are some interesting average-case results, e.g.

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304397515008105

Describe some of the (recent) average-case results. What makes this
problem substantially easier than the worst case? What are some other
useful applications (besides finding short paths) of using min-sum
products?


* Pick one of the recent accepted STOC papers or SODA papers

http://acm-stoc.org/stoc2018/STOC-2018-Accepted.html
http://www.dcs.warwick.ac.uk/~czumaj/SODA_2018_List_of_accepted_papers.htm

and present the main ideas/breakthroughs in the paper as compared to
prior work on the algorithmic problem.



* If you have some idea of an area you're interested in, please meet
  with Tao or Jamie to discuss if you need some pointers.